Overview[edit]Title:￼ Efficient Network Security Policy Enforcement With Policy Space Analysis
Source: ToN'16
Attendee: Prof. Jun Li, Prof. Yibo Xue, Qing Lv, Shuo Wang, Zhi Liu, Dongfang Li, Jun Yang, Xing Zhang, Shijie Sun, Lingli Wan, Jiazheng Wang.
Speaker: Danyang Li
Recorder: Qing Lv
Presentation[edit]Background
Data Center Network (DCN)
Service in Cloud  DCN
Service in Cloud  DCN
Policy in Cloud DCN
Policy Management
Orthogonal Perspective
Related Work
Policy Language
Policy Enforcement
Policy Space Analysis
Motivation
Header Space Analysis (HSA)
Problems with HSA
Design
Policy Space  Analysis
PSA Implementation
HyperRect Operation
PolicySpace Operation
Multi-dimensional  spatial index of PolicySpace
Evaluation
PSA Evaluation-- Spatial performance
PSA Evaluation-- Temporal performance
Policy Enforcement with PSA
Topological Analysis of Service Policy
Analysis of three classical policies
Forwarding policy vs. Service Policy
Implications
Policy Assignment
MBPE
Set Cover Problem (SCP)
Greedy Algorithm
Evaluation
Extended MBPE
Policy Verification
Distributed data plane policies verification
Summary
An orthogonal perspective of network forwarding and network service 
A framework of policy space analysis definitions and operations
A few policy enforcement algorithms as research in progress
Discussion[edit] Zhi Liu: When MBPE is modeled as SCP(Set Cover Problem), does every rule need to cover every node?
 Danyang Li: Every policy has different rules, we need to find a set of them to satisfy conditions.
 Yibo Xue & Jun Li: Are there any words to better describe the problem besides Policy Assignment?
 Jun Li: I discussed with Xiaohe Hu that maybe "distribution" is OK but not sure, the problem is open for discussion. There is a lot of work to do in network forwarding and network service. A student from EE has also studied the problem from a angle which is different from this paper.
 Zhi Liu: How to solve resource utilization and the updating problem?
 Jun Li: It is important to reduce the utilization of invalid bandwidth in network service, minimize and optimize the nodes.
 Zhi Liu: Is there a better way to describe the question? There may be a little confusion when using the "\subseteq".
 Jun Li & Danyang Li: Just form the  problem in mathematics to adopt the greedy algorithm later, need to think about it.
 Zhi Liu: It is iteration rather than recursion.
 Danyang Li: Oh, I will fix it.
 Jun Li: About the rule sets, we may not have that much data to find the characteristics of the rule sets.
 Zhi Liu: I have also considered the problem maybe we can study further.