Overview[edit]Title:￼ A New Approach to Bot Detection: Striking the Balance Between Precision and Recall
Source: ASONAM 2016
Attendee: Professor Jun Li, Jun Yang, Danyang Li, Shuo Wang, Shijie Sun, Hang Zhu, Linli Wan, Jiazheng Wang, Nan Zhou, Qing Lyu.
Speaker: Jun Yang
Recorder: Qing Lyu

Presentation[edit] What is a bot?
 Social media accounts that are controlled by software
 Innocuous
 Nocuous
 How many?
 Over half of the accounts on Twitter are not human
 5-9% bots produce 24% tweets on Twitter
 28% of accounts created in 2008 and half of the accounts created in 2014 have been suspended by Twitter
 Influence
 Bots detection
 Classification tasks
 Content 
 User profile
 Activities
 Network structure and connection
 Ground Truth Acquirements
 Precision vs Recall
 Contributions
 Two labeled datasets by different techniques
 Textual features by LDA
 Modified approach for higher Recall and F1
 Dataset
 Lybya
 Arabic Honeypot
 Baselines
 Heuristics
 Retweet fraction
 Average tweet length
 URLs fraction
 Average time interval
 LDA
 AdaBoost
 BoostOR
 Discussion of F1-score
 Number of topicsDiscussion[edit]Prof. Jun Li: What about the accuracy?
Jun Yang: Here the F1 value is used to measure the performance, mainly related to precision (P) and recall (R).Shuo Wang: What kind of weak classifiers are used in the Adaboost?
Jun Yang: It has not been discussed in the paper, maybe need further investigation.Qing Lyu: Why is the F1 value defined in that way in the paper, does it have any physical significance?
Jun Yang: It has not been explained.Jiazheng Wang: Is there any chance that the Adaboost getting overfitting as it combines so many classifiers?
Jun Yang: Probably not, because the classifiers it contains are all weak classifiers. Maybe it is a good question to study.Prof. Jun Li: Do the method always converge, does it have any relationship with the features or parameters chosen?
 Jun Yang: Yes, it is related to the features.
 Prof. Jun Li:  Plenty attention should be paid to the problem we choose to study (e.g., thesis proposal), not only the significance of the problem but also the method we use and the expected results to evaluate the problem and method.