Topology Affects the Efficiency of Network Coding in Peer-to-Peer Networks
Speaker: Zhiming Zhang
Attendants: Prof. Li, Jin Zhou, Zhen Chen, Yaxuan Qi, Li Tang, Zhiming Zhang, Jeffery Fong, Kai Wang, Fei He, Jinli Meng, Xinming Chen, Feng Xie, Fan Xiang, Ying Guo
Recoder: Ying Guo
Content:
Introduction
	Applications: P2P/wireless, the intermediate nodes are under control
	advantages:
		Achieve better network throughput
		Offer better scalability and superb resilience to peer failures
		Shorten downloading times 
	the backwards put up by the article: linearly dependent blocks
Linear Network Coding
	coefficients in the Galois Field: influence independence
	density
	aggressiveness 
The problem of linearly Dependent blocks
	example with a small topology, with random topologies: all have linearly dependent blocks.
Topology effects on the efficiency of network coding
	three key performances: redundancy, distribution time, server cost
	two key variables: randomness and network sparsity
	small world topologies: p=0, completely regular graph; p=1, random graph
	conclusions from the analysis of impact of randomness and sparsity
		sharing many neighbors leads to high redundancy
		long paths result in long distribution time
		too few neighbors leads to high redundancy
		global connectivity does not have the most significant impact on network coding redundancy, but the local connectivity ( peer degree)
		the best d=6
Conclusion
	the P2P topologies offering the best overall performance are small-world topologies with low rewiring probability (around p = 0.1) with peer degree of six.
	Small-world networks with low rewiring probability p exhibit significantly lower server cost than corresponding networks with more randomness
Discussion
周晋老师：PPT 15页中，研究Server cost的最下面的图表，server cost有一段是增加的，文章并没有对这种情况加以解释。
李军老师：这篇文章结论的意义：the best degree d=6. 为什么是6个？六度分割理论， 
亓亚烜：小世界模型和P2P模型的关系？这篇文章用这个模型的意义？
周晋老师：小世界模型在研究中经常使用
张志明：之前介绍的文章中，出于比较有无网络编码性能的不同，研究的拓扑有：
完全图，随机图，局部聚集图，随时间变化图。说明拓扑可以更换，这篇文章构建的拓扑环境没有太大意义。
亓亚烜：网络编码理论有无真实的应用背景？
张志明：在P2P应用中，Baochun Li从理论到系统实现，都做得很多，例如网络编码在UUSee中的应用。在无线应用中，可以减小传输时延，节省能耗。但是目前网络编码炒得很热，但是真正应用不多，缺点是计算量比较复杂，消耗CPU资源。
其它讨论结论：
在本身可以达到最大容量的情况下，网络编码没有什么意义，针对无法达到最大容量的情况下，网络编码才有意义。
多路传输上的网络编码：有线，TCP；无线，也有人在做。
网络编码还要考虑代价与收益的关系，即使代价很容易测定，但是由于网络在不断动态变化，收益很难测控，无法评价网络编码的性能结果。
