Contents

1 Overview
2 Related Research
3 Social Role-Aware Emotion Contagion in Image Social Networks
4 Discussion

Overview[edit]Title:￼ Social Role-Aware Emotion Contagion in Image Social Networks
Source: AAAI'13
Attendee: Prof. Yibo Xue. Zhi Liu, Ju Xing, Danyang Li, Shuo Wang, Qing Lv, Dongfang Li, Jun Yang.
Speaker: Jun Yang
Recorder: Zhi Liu
Related Research[edit]Background
Emotion Classification
Sentiment Analysis
Knowledge-based Techniques
Statistical Methods
Hybrid Approaches
Emotion Contagion
Epidemic Model; Linear Threshold Model; Independent Cascade Model
Some research on Facebook and some conclusionsRelated Work
Image Emotion Inference
Social Roles Analysis
Opinion Leader
Structural Hole SpannerSocial Role-Aware Emotion Contagion in Image Social Networks[edit]Background
Problem Definition
Exploratory Analysis
Correlation Analysis
Role-Aware Correlation Analysis
Proposed Model
Historical post logs + Previous emotion + Image features + Friends’ emotions
Experimental Results and Analysis
Dataset
Results
ConclusionDiscussion[edit]Yibo Xue: Does this work consider the action/altitude of friend's image? 
Jun Yang: No, currently this work only consider the patterns from the friends' image and the emotion when posting the image.
Yibo Xue: So will the proposed model consider the transition between different emotions? 
Jun Yang: The model only calculates the possibility that the user retains the previous emotion.
Zhi Liu: How does the emotions be inferred from text-based methods? 
Jun Yang: In Flickr, each image is posted with a set of tags. Those tags can be matched agains a set of "word bags" that reflect different emotions. And this work is based on the assumption that the results of text-based emotion analysis is correct.
Qing Lv: In the algorithm comparison, how do other algorithms (SVM, LR, etc) detect the emotions?
Jun Yang: Those methods only infer poster's emotion based on the pattern of the image
Shuo Wang: What is the size of the data?
Jun Yang: 2 million pictures, 1 million users