Information[edit]Topic: 1) Prospex: Tunnel Hunter: Detecting Application-Layer Tunnels with Statistical Fingerprinting 
Attendee: Jun Li, Yibo Xue, Yaxuan Qi, Baohua Yang, Xiang Wang, Zhenlong Yuan, Yiyang Shao, Yang Gao, Zhi Liu, Xiaoqi Ren, Lu Li, Qing Xu, Yang Wu, Jingjie Jiang
Speaker: Zhenlong Yuan
Recorder: Zhi Liu
Presentation[edit]Motivation:
Several techniques tunnels one application-layer protocol into another one.
encapsulate all outgoing traffic into semantically valid HTTP requests
tunnel TCP traffic through an SSH connection by means of cryptography.
tunnel non-legitimate traffic through the network boundary.Key Ideas:
Characterizing legitimate uses of a given application-layer protocol.
The information carried by packets at the network layer, such as packet-size and inter-arrival time between consecutive packets, are enough to infer the nature of the application protocol.Contributions:
The formalization of a statistical model, based on established pattern recognition approaches, that can be used to characterize application-layer protocols.
The definition of a simple classification algorithm that can discriminate when an application protocol, characterized with the technique mentioned above, is being used to tunnel another protocol on top of it.
The report on a series of experiments carried out on a real network that prove the effectiveness of the technique we propose here.
The analysis of how adding knowledge to the classifier, even when not directly related to the classification target, can significantly improve the accuracy of the tunnel detector.Stages in Pattern Recognition:
Data collection.
Feature selection or feature extraction.
Definition of patterns and classes.
Definition and application of the discrimination procedure.
Assessment and interpretation of results.Measurement of Features:
The packet size s and the inter-arrival time Δt between two consecutive packets.Class Model:
One class classifier
requires to train the classifier only with flows from a single legitimate class.
Multi-class classifier
new classes composed of outlier flows are added to the analysis.
Prospex can automatically infer protocol
Parzen method
filter the density estimations matrices using either a Gaussian or a hyperbolic secant kernel.
each one defined in a N (s) · N (Δ t) domain.Potential Attacks:
Opens a tunnel over SSH and initially uses it for remote administration. After this allowed stage, he starts exploiting the session to tunnel other kinds of application protocol.
It is sensitive to packet-size and timing value manipulation.Discussion:
Yibo Xue：实际问题中出现的很多问题这篇文章没有提到
Yaxuan Qi：高维空间中少样本的模式识别
Baohua Yang：关于解密的问题
Jun Li：在tunnel中去识别非法流量是非常困难的
Xiang Wang：可以作为前端的处理，后续加深度检测的设备
Jun Li：实际工程实践的时候，没有办法加检测同时维持流的正常转发