Overview[edit]Title:￼ Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System
Source: https://bitcoin.org/en/bitcoin-paper
Attendee: Prof. Jun Li, Prof. Yibo Xue, Qing Lv,  Danyang Li, Zhi Liu, Ju Xing, Xing Zhang, Shijie Sun, Jiazheng Wang.
Speaker: Shuo Wang
Recorder: Danyang Li
Presentation[edit]Background
P2P Electronic Cash System
No trusted 3rd Parties
Completely non-reversible
Avoid double-spending problem
Introduction
Digital signature as coin
Blockchain as ledger
Proof-of-work as consensus
Transaction
Theory
Examples
Blockchain
Block
Contains:
One block contains many transactions
Timestamp server (based on PKI)
Hash
Examples
Blockchain
Proof-of-work
Consensus
Byzantine Generals Problem
Examples
Network
New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.
Each node collects new transactions into a block.
Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for its block.
When a node finds a proof-of-work, it broadcasts the block to all nodes.
what if two nodes find their own proof-of-work at the same time. 
Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and not already spent.
what & how to verify
Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.Incentives for miners
Bitcoin reward
Transaction fees
Roles 
Bitcoin Core
Full node
Independent miner
SPV wallet
Use Merkle Tree to simplify payment verification
Use Bloom Filter to avoid personal information exposure.
Blockchain 2.0
Smart contract
VM
Decentralized appDiscussion[edit] Jiazheng: If we can create a super-computer with greater computing ability than any other computer in the Bitcoin network,then we can generate all the blocks in BlockChain, is this right?
 Ju Xing & Zhi Liu: Since Hash (used to find a prove-of-work) is a process with uncertainty, the possibility of node A to find a prove-of-work is decided by its percentage of computing ability in the sum of computing ability of every computer in the Bitcoin network. So we can only make a computer with computing ability greater than the total computing ability of all other computers, which is definitely impossible.
 Ju Xing: When should we adjust the length of 0s in Hash header?
 Shuo Wang: We can make an estimation of the total computing ability by investigating the time used to find a prove-of-work by existing network. When it takes too short to find a prove-of-work, we should adjust the length of 0s.
 Ju Xing: For now, what's the size of total transaction log?
 Shuo Wang: About 70G.
 Danyang: If I use Bloom Filter to avoid emitting my personal information, the sniffer can do the same process with the queried bitcoin core to find the entry I am looking for, so what's the meaning of doing this?
 Shuo Wang: Not clear. Maybe increasing the cost of sniffing.
 Ju Xing: Is UTXO a logical concept or actually implemented in reality?
 Shuo Wang: Maybe both.
 Zhi Liu: How and where is the Transaction Pool maintained?
 Shuo Wang: No maintenance indeed, users just broadcast their transactions, Bitcoin Cores just choose from what they heard.
 Ju Xing: How to achieve Fault Tolerance?
 Shuo Wang: Just synchronic with the latest progress.
 Zhi Liu: Is the restriction of 1MB on transaction entries influence the usage of BitCoin?
 Shuo Wang: Surely. But we can't simply change the restriction. It will cause a huge conflict of interest between traders and miners.
 YiBo: The government is cautious about Bitcoin, but they welcome BlockChain. After all, monetary system has a huge influence on the society.
 Jun Li: But Bitcoin will surely control the future development of the society.